tzoupdate - TZO client for (much) any version of UNIX or Linux
Version 1.11 released July 31 2007


INTRODUCTION

This document is longer than it should be, however this seems unavoidable given the
combinations of supportable OS/platforms, multiplied by the range of
roles the audience may act in.

This INSTALL file is intended for the following audiences:
1) Software Developers
2) Software Package Maintainers and OEM/Systems Integrators
3) Linux/UNIX system administrators (including capable end users) whose
 OS/distribution is one that TZO has not released a pre-built package for,
 for example Ubuntu or Debian or Slackware. (At least some of these platforms
 will be better supported in the near future..)

tzoupdate may be run on any OS you can compile it for, however TZO Support
can not provide phone support for installing development tools, or 
troubleshooting build issues. 

As far as software compilation and installing go, tzoupdate is easy to manage
(however if this seems too much, you should investigate alternate clients such
as the TZO updater that may be build into your router).


BUILD REQUIREMENTS

Your build system must have GNU development tools installed, meaning
gmake and gcc.

It is a known issue than non-GNU versions of CC will not work. Patches
to support other compilers would be considered.


NOTES UPGRADING FROM PREVIOUS VERSIONS OF TZO LINUX

Skip this section if you have never installed TZO software on your target PC.

Older TZO clients are not compatible - for example "tzoperl". There is 
no direct upgrade method - you must manually install remove the older client
(the easiest way to do this is `slocate tzo` [or `locate tzo`] and
use sudo or root login to remove the files). At the very least, rm
the files /usr/local/bin/tzo and /etc/init.d/tzod.

Contact TZO Support if needed.


INSTALLATION - REBUILDING RPMS

This option applies to cases where your OS is compatible with 'rpm' installers, 
but TZO does not have a suitable binary rpm provided for you. An example distribution
would be Yellow Dog Linux (PPC).

Just follow your OS docs for rebuilding the source rpm (see `rpmbuild -bb`).

Users of .deb based systems such as Ubuntu or Debian can use 'alien' to convert
(either the source or binary) RPM, and continue from there per OS documentation.


INSTALLATION - COMPILING

As a regular user, run 'make tzoupdate'. 

If this succeeds then (su or sudo to root) and run 'make install'.


INSTALLATION - REQUIRED CONFIGURATION

1) Edit tzoupdate.conf for your account info
2) test (see README)
3) Put the path to tzowrapper.sh in your /etc/rc.local file; this will start the tzowrapper.sh
as a background daemon.

As an alternative to Step 3 here, you can create an "init" script for your OS/distribution.
Please send any OS-specific patches to devsupport@tzo.com for merging, thanks. 


UNINSTALL

There is no 'make uninstall' unfortunately, but both the Makefile and tzoupdate.spec
will outline where the install placed files.
